IPv6 and dual-stack ATIP documentation updates (#523)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/product/atip-automated-provision.adoc

    pods:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 192.168.0.0/18
        - fd00:bad:cafe::/48
    services:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.96.0.0/12

>         - fd00:bad:bad:cafe::/112

Reviewer: This will enable dual stack in our default example, even though it's only tech-preview status - should we perhaps instead create a new section with a snippet that explains the differences for dual stack, prefaced by a clear statement that it's tech-preview?

    name: single-node-cluster
----

> For a deployment with dual-stack PODs and Services the following definition can be used instead:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a deployment with dual-stack PODs and Services, the following definition can be used instead:
```

> For a deployment with dual-stack PODs and Services, the following definition can be used instead:

Reviewer 3: Very minor nit, should we use `pods` rather than `PODs`?

Author: If it's a genuine question: I don't know :)

Author: The k8s documentation uses "Pods", "Services", etc... what have we used so far?

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: single-node-cluster
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusterNetwork:
    pods:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 192.168.0.0/18
        - fd00:bad:cafe::/48
    services:
      cidrBlocks:
        - 10.96.0.0/12
        - fd00:bad:bad:cafe::/112
  controlPlaneRef:
    apiVersion: controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: RKE2ControlPlane
    name: single-node-cluster
  infrastructureRef:
    apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
    kind: Metal3Cluster
    name: single-node-cluster
----

[IMPORTANT]
====

> IPv6 and dual-stack deployments are in tech-preview status and not ufficially supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IPv6 and dual-stack deployments are in tech preview status and are not officially supported.
```

====

[NOTE]
====

> Make sure to run Metal3 version 0.9.0 or greater for dual-stack deployments, only single stack deployments are otherwise possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to run Metal3 version 0.9.0 or greater for dual-stack deployments. Only single-stack deployments are otherwise possible.
```

> Make sure to run Metal3 version 0.9.0 or greater for dual-stack deployments. Only single-stack deployments are otherwise possible.

Reviewer: Was there a bug in the Metal3 chart, or is this referring to the issues with the RKE2 CAPI provider?

If so I'd be tempted to drop this, since we already describe the versions (and the related fix) in the release notes?

Reviewer 3: Agreed with Steve, is there a situation where the version would be out of sync if the customer is using a specific version in the release notes?

Author: Yes, it's the same RKE2 provider issue. I'm not sure how many people will actually check the release notes, but I'll remove it then.

Reviewer: Ok thanks, lets remove it - the RKE2 provider is coupled to the rancher-turtles chart version, not the metal3 one, and if customers follow the documented steps they should get the necessary fix 👍

- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_IP_V4\}` - the IPv4 address to assign to the host
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V4\}` - the IPv4 prefix of the network the host IP belongs to
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_IP_V6\}` - the IPv6 address to assign to the host
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V6\}` - the IPv6 prefix of the network the host IP belongs to
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V4\}` - the IPv4 address of the gateway for the traffic matching the default route
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V6\}` - the IPv6 address of the gateway for the traffic matching the default route
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE\}` - the name of the interface to assign the addresses to and to use for the egressing traffic matching the default route, for both IPv4 and IPv6
- `$\{DNS_SERVER_V4\}` and/or `$\{DNS_SERVER_V6\}` - the IP address(es) of the DNS server(s) to use, as a single or multiple entries; both IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses can be specified

[NOTE]
====
You can refer to https://github.com/suse-edge/atip/tree/main/telco-examples/edge-clusters[the ATIP repo] for more complex examples, including IPv6 only and dual-stack configurations.
====

> Lastly, regardless of the specifics of the network configuration, do not forget to reference the secret by appending `preprovisioningNetworkDataName` at the end of the `BaremetalHost` object to be used to enroll the host in the management cluster:

Reviewer 4: First part there're "of the" two times so what about something like:
```suggestion
Lastly, regardless of the network configuration details, ensure you reference the secret by appending `preprovisioningNetworkDataName` to the `BaremetalHost` object to successfully enroll the host in the management cluster.
```

        next-hop-interface: ${CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE}
----

As you can see, the example shows the configuration to enable the interface with static IPs, as well as the configuration to enable the VLAN using the base interface, once the following variables are replaced with the actual values, according to your infrastructure:

> - `$\{CONTROLPLANE1_INTERFACE\}` — The control-plane interface to be used for the edge cluster (for example, `eth0`). Including `identifier: mac-address` the naming is inspected automatically by the MAC address so any interface name can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE1_INTERFACE\}` — The control-plane interface to be used for the edge cluster (for example, `eth0`). By including `identifier: mac-address`, the naming is inspected automatically by the MAC address so any interface name can be used.
```

- `$\{DNS_SERVER\}` — The DNS to be used for the edge cluster (for example, `192.168.100.2`).
- `$\{VLAN_ID\}` — The VLAN ID to be used for the edge cluster (for example, `100`).

> Any other `nmstate` compliant definition can be used to configure the network for the downstream cluster to adapt to the specific requirements, for instance it is possible to specify a static dual-stack configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any other `nmstate`-compliant definition can be used to configure the network for the downstream cluster to adapt to the specific requirements. For example, it is possible to specify a static dual-stack configuration:
```

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: controlplane-0-networkdata
type: Opaque
stringData:
  networkData: |
    interfaces:
    - name: ${CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE}
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      mac-address: ${CONTROLPLANE_MAC}
      ipv4:
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
        address:
        - ip: ${CONTROLPLANE_IP_V4}
          prefix-length: ${CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V4}
      ipv6:
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
        autoconf: false
        address:
        - ip: ${CONTROLPLANE_IP_V6}
          prefix-length: ${CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V6}
    routes:
      config:
      - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
        next-hop-address: ${CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V4}
        next-hop-interface: ${CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE}
      - destination: ::/0
        next-hop-address: ${CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V6}
        next-hop-interface: ${CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE}
    dns-resolver:
      config:
        server:
        - ${DNS_SERVER_V4}
        - ${DNS_SERVER_V6}
----

As for the previous example, replace the following variables with actual values, according to your infrastructure:

- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_IP_V4\}` - the IPv4 address to assign to the host

> - `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V4\}` - the IPv4 prefix of the network the host IP belongs to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V4\}` - the IPv4 prefix of the network to which the host IP belongs
```

- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_IP_V6\}` - the IPv6 address to assign to the host

> - `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V6\}` - the IPv6 prefix of the network the host IP belongs to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_PREFIX_V6\}` - the IPv6 prefix of the network to which the host IP belongs
```

- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V4\}` - the IPv4 address of the gateway for the traffic matching the default route
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_GATEWAY_V6\}` - the IPv6 address of the gateway for the traffic matching the default route

> - `$\{CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE\}` - the name of the interface to assign the addresses to and to use for the egressing traffic matching the default route, for both IPv4 and IPv6

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$\{CONTROLPLANE_INTERFACE\}` - the name of the interface to assign the addresses to and to use for egress traffic matching the default route, for both IPv4 and IPv6
```

> - `$\{DNS_SERVER_V4\}` and/or `$\{DNS_SERVER_V6\}` - the IP address(es) of the DNS server(s) to use, as a single or multiple entries; both IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses can be specified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$\{DNS_SERVER_V4\}` and/or `$\{DNS_SERVER_V6\}` - the IP address(es) of the DNS server(s) to use, which can be specified as single or multiple entries. Both IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses are supported
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> IPv6 and dual-stack deployments are in tech-preview status and not ufficially supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IPv6 and dual-stack deployments are in tech preview status and are not officially supported.
```

====

[NOTE]
====
You can refer to https://github.com/suse-edge/atip/tree/main/telco-examples/edge-clusters[the ATIP repo] for more complex examples, including IPv6 only and dual-stack configurations.
====

> Lastly, regardless of the network configuration details, ensure to reference the secret by appending `preprovisioningNetworkDataName` to the `BaremetalHost` object to successfully enroll the host in the management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, regardless of the network configuration details, ensure to that the secret is referenced by appending `preprovisioningNetworkDataName` to the `BaremetalHost` object to successfully enroll the host in the management cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: Absolutely right! Thanks! I've corrected the suggestion now.
